RHDEVDOCS-5562: Creating content for Using Argo Rollouts to route traffic by OpenShift Routes (#72104)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-configure-rollout-route-traffic-using-openshift-routes.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argo_rollouts/using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configure-rollout-route-traffic-using-openshift-routes_{context}"]
= Configuring Argo Rollouts to route traffic by using OpenShift Routes

You can configure Argo Rollouts to route traffic by using OpenShift Routes. In this example, create a Route, a Rollout, and two Services, to incrementally route an increasing percentage of traffic, for example from 30% to 60% and then 100%, to a canary version of the application before that canary state is marked as successful and becomes the new stable version.

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.
* You have installed the {gitops-title} on your {OCP} cluster.

> * You have installed Argo Rollouts on your {OCP} cluster. For more information, see Creating a RolloutManager custom resource.

Author: Fixed.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} CLI on your system. For more information, see Installing the GitOps CLI. 

Author: Fixed.

> * You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see Configuring the GitOps CLI.

Author: Fixed.

.Procedure 

> . Create a Route. 

Author: Fixed.

.. In the Administrator perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Routes*.
.. Click *Create Route*.
.. On the *Create Route* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+

> .Example: Creating a `Route`

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:

>   name: rollouts-demo-route #<1>

Author: Fixed.

spec:
  port:
    targetPort: http
  tls:
    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: Redirect
    termination: edge
  to:
    kind: Service

>     name: argo-rollouts-stable-service #<2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: <argo_rollouts_stable_service > #<1>
```

Author: Fixed.

    weight: 100 # this field will be automatically modified by Route Rollout plugin, with stable weight

  alternateBackends:
    - kind: Service

>       name: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      name: <argo_rollouts_canary_service> #<2>
```

>       weight: 0 # this field will be automatically modified by Route Rollout plugin, with canary weight

Reviewer: Are the comments a part of the YAML or are they provided by the SME?

Author: I am keeping this comment as is since no further changes are required.

----
<1> Name of the route - rollouts-demo-route
<2> Name of the stable service - argo-rollouts-stable-service

> <3> Name of the canary service - argo-rollouts-canary-service

Author: Fixed.

+

> .. Click Create to create the Route. A route, *rollouts-demo-route*, is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click *Create* to create the route. Your route is then displayed on the *Routes* page.
```

Author: Fixed.

> . Create the services, canary and stable, to be referenced in the Route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create canary and stable services to be referenced in the route.
```

Author: Fixed.

> .. In the Administrator perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Services*.

Author: Fixed.

.. Click *Create Service*.
.. On the *Create Service* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+

> .Example: Creating a `Canary service`

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----

> # Canary traffic is directed to this Service, for example, it might initially be 30% of traffic

Reviewer: Again, are these comments a part of the YAML or are they provided by the SME?
If they are a part of the YAMl then it can stay like this. But if these are comments added by SME, we should try to convey the information in a different way (e.g. callouts, example explanation, ...)

Author: I am keeping this comment as is since no further changes are required.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:

>   name: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<1>

Author: Hey @eromanova97 - If i remove this callout, than it throws an error saying an unidentified callout is detected. Should I still go ahead and remove it?

>   name: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<1>

Author: Fixed.

spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

  selector: # this field/sub-field must have the same value as Rollout
    app: rollouts-demo
    # Rollouts will automatically update the Service with pod-template-hash of the canary ReplicaSet. e.g.:
    # rollouts-pod-template-hash: 7bf84f9696
----
<1> Name of the canary service created in the Create Services page
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
```

Author: Fixed.

====

> Ensure that the name of the canary service created in the *Create Route* page matches with the name of the canary service created in the *Create Services* page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the name of the canary service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the canary service specified in the `Service` object.
```

Author: Fixed.

====
.. Click *Create* to create the canary service.

> .. Similarly, repeat these steps to create the stable service by adding the following snippet in the YAML view of the *Create Services* page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Similarly, repeat these steps to create the stable service:
```

Author: Fixed.

> +
> .Example: Creating a `Stable service`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a stable service called `argo-rollouts-stable-service`:
+
```

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----

> # Stable traffic is directed to this Service, for example, it might initially be 70% of traffic.

Reviewer: the same comment about these comments in the YAML file.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:

>   name: argo-rollouts-stable-service #<1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
```

Author: Fixed.

spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

  selector: # this field/sub-field must have the same value as Rollout 
    app: rollouts-demo 
    # Rollouts will update the Service with pod-template-hash of the stable (non-canary) ReplicaSet. e.g.:
    # rollouts-pod-template-hash: 1b6a7733
----
<1> Name of the stable service created in the Services page
.. Click *Create* to create the stable service.
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
```

Author: Fixed.

====

> Ensure that the name of the stable service created in the *Create Route* page matches with the name of the stable service created in the *Create Services* page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the name of the stable service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the stable service specified in the `Service` object.```

Author: Fixed.

====

> . Create the `Rollout` CR to reference the Route and the Services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `Rollout` CR to reference the `Route` and `Service` objects.
```

Author: Fixed.

> .. In the Administrator perspective of the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In the *Administrator *perspective of the web console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. On the *Create Rollout* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:

> +
> .Example: Creating a `Rollout`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a `Rollout` CR called `rollouts-demo`:
+
```

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollouts-demo
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: rollouts-demo
        image: argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 32Mi
            cpu: 5m
                
  revisionHistoryLimit: 2
  replicas: 5
  strategy:
    canary:
      canaryService: argo-rollouts-canary-service # must match name of Service above #<1>

>       stableService: argo-rollouts-stable-service # must match name of Service above #<2>

Reviewer: Same comment about the comments in YAML. Based on the answer, I will provide more suggestions to this example YAML file.

Author: Fixed as per earlier comment.

      trafficRouting:
        plugins:
          argoproj-labs/openshift:          
            routes: #<3>
              - rollouts-demo-route  # must match name of Route, above
      steps: # In this example, route 30%/60%/100% of traffic to canary
      - setWeight: 30
      - pause: {}
      - setWeight: 60
      - pause: {}
  selector: # Contents of this field must match the same value in the canary and stable Services (same contents for both)
    matchLabels:
      app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Rollout references the canary service
<2> Rollout references the stable service
<3> Rollout references the route
.. Click *Create*. 
.. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.
+

> When the first instance of the Rollout resource is created, the Rollout regulates the amount of traffic to be directed towards the various versions of the application, i.e. the stable and the canary versions. In the initial instance, the creation of the Rollout resource routes 100% of the traffic towards the stable version of the application and skips the part where the traffic is sent to the canary version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the first instance of the `Rollout ` resource is created, the rollout regulates the amount of traffic to be directed towards the stable and canary application versions. In the initial instance, the creation of the `Rollout` resource routes all of the traffic towards the stable version of the application and skips the part where the traffic is sent to the canary version.
```

Reviewer: Woud this information be better to include in the introduction rather than the procedure?

Author: Yeah, I agree that this information can also be included in the introduction. Fixed.

> .. To verify that the Route is directing 100% of the traffic towards the stable version of the application, navigate to *Networking* → *Routes* and view the *rollouts-demo-route* Route. Select the *YAML* tab to view the following snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the route is directing 100% of the traffic towards the stable version of the application. 

.. Go to *Networking* -> *Routes* and look for the `Route` resource you want to verify. 
.. Select the *YAML* tab and view the following snippet:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
.Example: `Rollout`
[source,yaml]
----
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 0 # 0% of traffic is directly to the canary
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service

>     weight: 100 # 100% of traffic is directed to stable.

Reviewer: Again, instead of including it as a comment (if it is not visible in the YAML itself), include it as a callout information.

Author: Fixed as per earlier comment.

----

> +
> You can view that 100% of the traffic is directed towards the stable version of the application and none is directed towards the canary version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Fixed.

> . Simulate the new canary version of the application by modifying the container image deployed in the Rollout. In the Administrator perspective of the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Simulate the new canary version of the application by modifying the container image deployed in the rollout. 

.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.
```

Author: Fixed.

> . Select the existing *Rollout*, and modify the `.spec.template.spec.containers.image` value from `argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue` to `argoproj/rollouts-demo:yellow`. As a result, the container image deployed in the Rollout is modified and the Rollout initiates a new canary deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the existing *Rollout*, and modify the `.spec.template.spec.containers.image` value from `argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue` to `argoproj/rollouts-demo:yellow`. 
+
As a result, the container image deployed in the rollout is modified and the rollout initiates a new canary deployment.
```

Author: Fixed.

+
.Example: `Rollout`
[source,yaml]
----
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 0 # 0% of traffic is directly to the canary
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 100 # 100% of traffic is directed to stable.
----
+
You can view that 100% of the traffic is directed towards the stable version of the application and none is directed towards the canary version.

. Simulate the new canary version of the application by modifying the container image deployed in the Rollout. In the Administrator perspective of the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.

. Select the existing *Rollout*, and modify the `.spec.template.spec.containers.image` value from `argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue` to `argoproj/rollouts-demo:yellow`. As a result, the container image deployed in the Rollout is modified and the Rollout initiates a new canary deployment.

> . As per the `setWeight` property defined in the `.spec.strategy.canary.steps` field of the Rollout, initially 30% of traffic to the Route reaches the canary, and 70% of traffic is directed towards the stable version of the application. After 30% of traffic is being directed to the canary version of the application, the Rollout will pause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
[NOTE]
====
As per the `setWeight` property defined in the `.spec.strategy.canary.steps` field of the `Rollout` resource, initially 30% of traffic to the route reaches the canary version, and 70% of traffic is directed towards the stable version. the rollout is paused after 30% of traffic is directed to the canary version.
====
```
This is not a step, so maybe an admonition?
Also, this seems like it should be included when the user is creating the `Rollout` resource.

Author: Fixed as an admonition.

> . To verify that the Route is accurately routing traffic to the canary and the stable versions, navigate to *Networking* → *Routes* and select the *YAML* tab. Check the weight defined in the existing Route. The weight of the traffic is 30% for canary version and 70% for the stable version of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the route is accurately routing traffic to the canary and stable versions.

.. Go to *Networking* → *Routes* and select the *YAML* tab. 
.. Look for the `weight` property defined in the `Route` resource. The weight of the traffic should be 30% for canary version and 70% for the stable version.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> .Example: `Rollout`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[source,yaml]
----
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 30 # 30% of traffic is directly to the canary
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 70 # 70% of traffic is directed to stable.
----

. Simulate another new canary version of the application by running the following command in the Argo Rollouts CLI:
+

> .Example: `New canary version of the application`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[source,yaml]
----

> oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n (namespace)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
```

Author: Fixed.

----

> where, `namespace` - Name of the project where the Rollout was defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> This increases the traffic weight in the canary version to 60% and 40% in the stable version of the application. Navigate to *Networking* -> *Routes* and select the *YAML* tab. Check the weight defined in the existing Route. The weight of the traffic is 60% for canary and 40% for the stable version of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This increases the traffic weight to 60% in the canary version and 40% in the stable version. 

. Verify that the route is accurately routing traffic to the canary and stable versions.

.. Go to *Networking* -> *Routes* and select the *YAML* tab. 

.. Look for the `weight` property defined in the existing `Route` resource. The weight of the traffic should be 60% for canary and 40% for the stable version.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> .Example: `Increased traffic in the canary version of the application`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[source,yaml]
----
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 60 
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 40
----

> . Similarly, run the `oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n (namespace)` command in the Argo Rollouts CLI to increase the traffic weight in the canary version of the application to 100% and discard the traffic in old stable version of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Increase the traffic weight in the canary version to 100% and discard the traffic in theold stable version of the application by running the following command:
+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <!>
----
<1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> .Example: `Increased traffic in the canary version of the application`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example increased traffic in the canary version of the application
```

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argo_rollouts/using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configure-rollout-route-traffic-using-openshift-routes_{context}"]
= Configuring Argo Rollouts to route traffic by using OpenShift Routes

You can use OpenShift Routes to configure Argo Rollouts to create routes, rollouts, and services.

> The following example procedure creates a route, a rollout, and two services to gradually route an increasing percentage of traffic, for example from 30% to 60% and then 100%, to a canary version of the application before that canary state is marked as successful and becomes the new stable version.

Author: Fixed.

> When the first instance of the `Rollout` resource is created, the rollout regulates the amount of traffic to be directed towards the stable and canary application versions. In the initial instance, the creation of the `Rollout` resource routes all of the traffic towards the stable version of the application and skips the part where the traffic is sent to the canary version.

Author: Fixed.

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.
* You have installed the {gitops-title} on your {OCP} cluster.
* You have installed Argo Rollouts on your {OCP} cluster. For more information, see "Creating a RolloutManager custom resource".
* You have installed the {gitops-title} CLI on your system. For more information, see _Installing the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.
* You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Configuring the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.

.Procedure 

. Create a `Route` object.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Routes*.
.. Click *Create Route*.
.. On the *Create Route* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+
The following example creates a route called `rollouts-demo-route`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  port:

>     targetPort: http

Author: Fixed.

>   tls:

Author: Fixed.

    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: Redirect
    termination: edge
  to:
    kind: Service

>     name: <argo_rollouts_stable_service > #<1>

Author: Fixed.

>     weight: 100 # this field will be automatically modified by Route Rollout plugin, with stable weight

Author: Fixed.

  alternateBackends:
    - kind: Service

>       name: <argo_rollouts_canary_service> #<2>

Author: Fixed.

>       weight: 0 # this field will be automatically modified by Route Rollout plugin, with canary weight

Author: Fixed.

----
<1> Specify the name of the stable service.

> <2> Specify the name of the canary service.

Author: Fixed.

+
.. Click *Create* to create the route. Your route is then displayed on the *Routes* page.

> . Create the services, canary and stable, to be referenced in the Route.

Author: Fixed.

.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Services*.
.. Click *Create Service*.
.. On the *Create Service* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+

> The following example creates a canary service called `argo-rollouts-canary-service`:

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----

> # Canary traffic is directed to this Service, for example, it might initially be 30% of traffic

Author: Fixed.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<1>
spec:

>   ports:

Author: Fixed.

  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

>   selector: # this field/sub-field must have the same value as Rollout

Author: Fixed.

    app: rollouts-demo
    # Rollouts will automatically update the Service with pod-template-hash of the canary ReplicaSet. e.g.:

>     # rollouts-pod-template-hash: 7bf84f9696

Author: Fixed.

----

> <1> Name of the canary service created in the Create Services page

Author: Fixed.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure that the name of the canary service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the canary service specified in the `Service` object.
====

> .. Click *Create* to create the canary service.

Author: Fixed.

.. Similarly, repeat these steps to create the stable service:
+

> The following example creates a stable service called `argo-rollouts-stable-service`:

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----

> # Stable traffic is directed to this Service, for example, it might initially be 70% of traffic.

Author: Fixed.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:

>   name: argo-rollouts-stable-service #<1>

Author: Fixed.

spec:

>   ports:

Author: Fixed.

  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

>   selector: # this field/sub-field must have the same value as Rollout 

Author: Fixed.

    app: rollouts-demo 
    # Rollouts will update the Service with pod-template-hash of the stable (non-canary) ReplicaSet. e.g.:

>     # rollouts-pod-template-hash: 1b6a7733

Author: Fixed.

----

> <1> Name of the stable service created in the Services page

Author: Fixed.

.. Click *Create* to create the stable service.

> +

Author: Fixed.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure that the name of the stable service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the stable service specified in the `Service` object.

> ====

Author: Fixed.

. Create the `Rollout` CR to reference the `Route` and `Service` objects.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.
.. On the *Create Rollout* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+
The following example creates a `Rollout` CR called `rollouts-demo`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollouts-demo
    spec:

>       containers:

Reviewer: Can we add any information about the container field?

>       containers:

Author: Fixed.

      - name: rollouts-demo
        image: argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 32Mi
            cpu: 5m
                
  revisionHistoryLimit: 2
  replicas: 5
  strategy:
    canary:
      canaryService: argo-rollouts-canary-service # must match name of Service above #<1>

>       stableService: argo-rollouts-stable-service # must match name of Service above #<2>

Author: Fixed.

      trafficRouting:
        plugins:
          argoproj-labs/openshift:          
            routes: #<3>

>               - rollouts-demo-route  # must match name of Route, above

Author: Fixed.

      steps: # In this example, route 30%/60%/100% of traffic to canary
      - setWeight: 30
      - pause: {}
      - setWeight: 60
      - pause: {}

>   selector: # Contents of this field must match the same value in the canary and stable Services (same contents for both)

Author: Fixed.

    matchLabels:
      app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Rollout references the canary service
<2> Rollout references the stable service

> <3> Rollout references the route

Author: Fixed.

.. Click *Create*. 
.. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

> . Verify that the route is directing 100% of the traffic towards the stable version of the application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the route is directing 100% of the traffic towards the stable version of the application. 
+
[NOTE]
====
Info about rollout from introduction.
====
```
Here is where I would put that info about `Rollout` resource routing all of the traffic towards the stable version of the application at first.

Author: Fixed.

.. Go to *Networking* -> *Routes* and look for the `Route` resource you want to verify. 
.. Select the *YAML* tab and view the following snippet:
+

> .Example: `Rollout`

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service

>     weight: 0 # 0% of traffic is directly to the canary

Author: Fixed.

  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service

>     weight: 100 # 100% of traffic is directed to stable.

Author: Fixed.

----

. Simulate the new canary version of the application by modifying the container image deployed in the rollout. 
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.

> .. Select the existing *Rollout*, and modify the `.spec.template.spec.containers.image` value from `argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue` to `argoproj/rollouts-demo:yellow`. 

Author: Fixed.

+
As a result, the container image deployed in the rollout is modified and the rollout initiates a new canary deployment.

> 

Author: Fixed.

+
[NOTE]
====

> As per the `setWeight` property defined in the `.spec.strategy.canary.steps` field of the `Rollout` resource, initially 30% of traffic to the route reaches the canary version, and 70% of traffic is directed towards the stable version. the rollout is paused after 30% of traffic is directed to the canary version.

Author: Fixed.

====

. Verify that the route is accurately routing traffic to the canary and stable versions.
.. Go to *Networking* → *Routes* and select the *YAML* tab. 
.. Look for the `weight` property defined in the `Route` resource. The weight of the traffic should be 30% for canary version and 70% for the stable version.
+
.Example: `Rollout`
[source,yaml]
----
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 30 # 30% of traffic is directly to the canary
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 70 # 70% of traffic is directed to stable.

> ----

Author: Fixed.

. Simulate another new canary version of the application by running the following command in the Argo Rollouts CLI:
+

> .Example: `New canary version of the application`

Author: Fixed.

+
This increases the traffic weight to 60% in the canary version and 40% in the stable version. 
. Verify that the route is accurately routing traffic to the canary and stable versions.
.. Go to *Networking* -> *Routes* and select the *YAML* tab. 
.. Look for the `weight` property defined in the existing `Route` resource. The weight of the traffic should be 60% for canary and 40% for the stable version.
+
.Example: `Increased traffic in the canary version of the application`
[source,yaml]
----
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 60 
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 40
----

. Increase the traffic weight in the canary version to 100% and discard the traffic in the old stable version of the application by running the following command:
+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
----
<1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.
+
.Example increased traffic in the canary version of the application
[source,yaml]
----
 to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 100

> ----

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argo_rollouts/using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configure-rollout-route-traffic-using-openshift-routes_{context}"]
= Configuring Argo Rollouts to route traffic by using OpenShift Routes

You can use OpenShift Routes to configure Argo Rollouts to create routes, rollouts, and services.

The following example procedure creates a route, a rollout, and two services. It then gradually routes an increasing percentage of traffic to a canary version of the application before that canary state is marked as successful and becomes the new stable version.

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.
* You have installed the {gitops-title} on your {OCP} cluster.

> * You have installed Argo Rollouts on your {OCP} cluster. For more information, see xref:../argo_rollouts/using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery.adoc#gitops-creating-rolloutmanager-custom-resource_using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery[Creating a RolloutManager custom resource].

Reviewer 2: Per the [docs guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#links-hyperlinks-and-cross-references) you can't put xrefs in modules. If you want a link to this page, you'll have to add it in an additional resources section underneath where the module is included in the assembly. Here's some guidance (see the parts about using it on the module level): https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#additional-resources-sections

As for the text in this module, you have to take out the xref and replace it with some formatting like quotation marks:
```suggestion
* You have installed Argo Rollouts on your {OCP} cluster. For more information, see "Creating a RolloutManager custom resource".
```

Author: @varshab1210 - I would like to revert your earlier feedback and remove the links from prereqs. Adding quotation marks and since the links are already included in the Additional resources section, removing the links would be the appropriate course of action to fix this comment.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} CLI on your system. For more information, see xref:../installing_gitops/installing-argocd-gitops-cli.adoc#installing-argocd-gitops-cli[Installing the {gitops-shortname} CLI].

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above:
```suggestion
* You have installed the {gitops-title} CLI on your system. For more information, see "Installing the {gitops-shortname} CLI".
```

Author: Fixed.

* You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Argo Rollouts CLI overview_.

.Procedure 

. Create a `Route` object.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Routes*.
.. Click *Create Route*.

> .. On the *Create Route* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
> +
> The following example creates a route called `rollouts-demo-route`:

Reviewer 2: I think it might be a little awkward to have two sentences in a row ending with a colon like this. Here is one suggestion that can let you keep the content but shift around the formatting a bit:

```suggestion
.. On the *Create Route* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet.
The following example creates a route called `rollouts-demo-route`:
```

Author: Thanks, accepting the suggestion and applying your feedback.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  port:
    targetPort: http #<1>
  tls: #<2>
    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: Redirect
    termination: edge
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service #<3>
    weight: 100 # <4>

  alternateBackends:
    - kind: Service
      name: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<5>
      weight: 0 #<6>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.

> <2> Specifies the TLS configuration used to secure the route

Author: Fixed.

<3> The name of the targeted stable service.
<4> This field is automatically modified to stable weight by Route Rollout plugin.
<5> The name of the targeted canary service.
<6> This field is automatically modified to canary weight by Route Rollout plugin.
+
.. Click *Create* to create the route. It is then displayed on the *Routes* page.
. Create the services, canary and stable, to be referenced in the route.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Services*.
.. Click *Create Service*.
.. On the *Create Service* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+

> The following example creates a canary service called `argo-rollouts-canary-service`. Canary traffic is directed to this service.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
spec:
  ports: #<1>
  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

  selector: #<2>
    app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.

> <2> Ensure that the contents of the `selector` field are the same as in stable service and `Rollout` CR.

Author: Fixed.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure that the name of the canary service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the canary service specified in the `Service` object.
====
.. Click *Create* to create the canary service.
+
Rollouts automatically update the created service with pod template hash of the canary `ReplicaSet`. For example, `rollouts-pod-template-hash: 7bf84f9696`.

> .. Similarly, repeat these steps to create the stable service:

Reviewer 2: In my opinion "similarly" is unnecessary and gets in the way of the actual step being instructed:
```suggestion
.. Repeat these steps to create the stable service:
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> The following example creates a stable service called `argo-rollouts-stable-service`. Stable traffic is directed to this service.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
spec:
  ports: #<1>
  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

  selector: #<2> 
    app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.
<2> Ensure that the contents of the `selector` field are the same as in canary service and `Rollout` CR .
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure that the name of the stable service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the stable service specified in the `Service` object.
====
.. Click *Create* to create the stable service.
+
Rollouts automatically update the created service with pod template hash of the stable `ReplicaSet`. For example, `rollouts-pod-template-hash: 1b6a7733`.
. Create the `Rollout` CR to reference the `Route` and `Service` objects.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.
.. On the *Create Rollout* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+

> The following example creates a `Rollout` CR called `rollouts-demo`:

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo
spec:
  template: #<1>
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollouts-demo
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: rollouts-demo
        image: argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 32Mi
            cpu: 5m
                
  revisionHistoryLimit: 2
  replicas: 5
  strategy:
    canary:
      canaryService: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<2>
      stableService: argo-rollouts-stable-service #<3>
      trafficRouting:
        plugins:
          argoproj-labs/openshift:          
            routes:
              - rollouts-demo-route  #<4>
      steps: #<5>
      - setWeight: 30
      - pause: {}
      - setWeight: 60
      - pause: {}
  selector: #<6>
    matchLabels:
      app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Specifies the pods that are to be created.
<2> This must match the name of the created canary `Service`.
<3> This must match the name of the created stable `Service`.

> <4> This must match the name of the created `Route` CR.

Author: Fixed.

.. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

. Verify that the route is directing 100% of the traffic towards the stable version of the application.
+
[NOTE]
====
When the first instance of the `Rollout` resource is created, the rollout regulates the amount of traffic to be directed towards the stable and canary application versions. In the initial instance, the creation of the `Rollout` resource routes all of the traffic towards the stable version of the application and skips the part where the traffic is sent to the canary version.
====
.. Go to *Networking* -> *Routes* and look for the `Route` resource you want to verify. 
.. Select the *YAML* tab and view the following snippet:
+
.Example: `Route`
[source,yaml]
----
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 0 #<1>
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 100 #<2>
----
<1> This means that 0% of traffic is directed to the canary version.

> <2> This means that 100% of traffic is directed to the stable version.

Author: Fixed.

.. Select the existing *Rollout* and modify the `.spec.template.spec.containers.image` value from `argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue` to `argoproj/rollouts-demo:yellow`.
+
As a result, the container image deployed in the rollout is modified and the rollout initiates a new canary deployment.
+
[NOTE]
====
As per the `setWeight` property defined in the `.spec.strategy.canary.steps` field of the `Rollout` resource, initially 30% of traffic to the route reaches the canary version and 70% of traffic is directed towards the stable version. The rollout is paused after 30% of traffic is directed to the canary version.
====
+
.Example route with 30% of traffic directed to the canary version and 70% directed to the stable version.
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 30
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 70
----

. Simulate another new canary version of the application by running the following command in the Argo Rollouts CLI:
+

> [source,yaml]

Author: Fixed.

----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
----

> <1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.

Author: Fixed.

+
This increases the traffic weight to 60% in the canary version and 40% in the stable version. 
+
.Example route with 60% of traffic directed to the canary version and 40% directed to the stable version.
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 60
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 40
----
. Increase the traffic weight in the canary version to 100% and discard the traffic in the old stable version of the application by running the following command:
+

> [source,yaml]

Author: Fixed.

----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
----

> <1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argo_rollouts/using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configure-rollout-route-traffic-using-openshift-routes_{context}"]
= Configuring Argo Rollouts to route traffic by using OpenShift Routes

You can use OpenShift Routes to configure Argo Rollouts to create routes, rollouts, and services.

The following example procedure creates a route, a rollout, and two services. It then gradually routes an increasing percentage of traffic to a canary version of the application before that canary state is marked as successful and becomes the new stable version.

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} on your {OCP} cluster.

Reviewer 3: @varshab1210 I _think_ since this is the 1.13 version of the docs that we don't need to mention the version in the documentation text, but perhaps @Dhruv-Soni11 has some insight here on what the best practice is here.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} on your {OCP} cluster.

Reviewer 4: Makes sense, thanks Jonathan.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} on your {OCP} cluster.

Author: Yes, it is implied that the user understands that is the GitOps 1.13 document as changes to version numbers will be made automatically in the published documentation.

> * You have installed Argo Rollouts on your {OCP} cluster. For more information, see "Creating a RolloutManager custom resource".

Author: We have added a link to this section in the Additional resources section @varshab1210.

> * You have installed Argo Rollouts on your {OCP} cluster. For more information, see "Creating a RolloutManager custom resource".

Author: But I will add it here as well.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} CLI on your system. For more information, see _Installing the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.

Author: Fixed.

> * You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Configuring the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.

Author: I don't understand this feedback @varshab1210. Could you please elaborate on the changes required for this comment? Thanks.

> * You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Configuring the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Argo Rollouts CLI overview_.
```

Author: Fixed.

> * You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Configuring the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.

Author: Once we merge the content for the Argo Rollouts CLI PR, I can provide a link for it here.

.Procedure 

. Create a `Route` object.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Routes*.
.. Click *Create Route*.
.. On the *Create Route* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+
The following example creates a route called `rollouts-demo-route`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  port:
    targetPort: http #<1>
  tls: #<2>
    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: Redirect
    termination: edge
  to:
    kind: Service

>     name: <argo_rollouts_stable_service > #<3>

Author: Fixed.

    weight: 100 # <4>

  alternateBackends:
    - kind: Service

>       name: <argo_rollouts_canary_service> #<5>

Author: Fixed.

      weight: 0 #<6>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.
<2> Specifies the TLS configuration used to secure the route

> <3> Specify the name of the targeted stable service.

Author: Fixed.

<4> This field is automatically modified to stable weight by Route Rollout plugin.

> <5> Specify the name of the targeted canary service.

Author: Fixed.

> <6> This field is automatically modified to canary weight by Route Rollout plugin.

Reviewer 3: @varshab1210 this is coming from the Route CR definition: it looks like both `weight` fields in Route default to 100. 

In the context of a stable/canary service it doesn't make a ton of sense for the user to not specify `weight:` values, so we've included them here in teh docs. (And Rollouts will ensure they are set correctly on first promotion)

+

> .. Click *Create* to create the route. Your route is then displayed on the *Routes* page.

Author: Fixed.

. Create the services, canary and stable, to be referenced in the route.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Services*.
.. Click *Create Service*.
.. On the *Create Service* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+
The following example creates a canary service called `argo-rollouts-canary-service`. Canary traffic is directed to this service.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
spec:
  ports: #<1>
  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

  selector: #<2>
    app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.

> <2> Ensure that the contents of the `selector` field are the same as in stable service and `Rollout` CR 

Author: Fixed.

spec:
  ports: #<1>
  - port: 80
    targetPort: http
    protocol: TCP
    name: http

  selector: #<2> 
    app: rollouts-demo
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.
<2> Ensure that the contents of the `selector` field are the same as in canary service and `Rollout` CR .
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure that the name of the stable service specified in the `Route` object matches with the name of the stable service specified in the `Service` object.
====
.. Click *Create* to create the stable service.
+
Rollouts automatically update the created service with pod template hash of the stable `ReplicaSet`. For example, `rollouts-pod-template-hash: 1b6a7733`.
. Create the `Rollout` CR to reference the `Route` and `Service` objects.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *Red Hat OpenShift GitOps* -> *Rollout*.
.. On the *Create Rollout* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+
The following example creates a `Rollout` CR called `rollouts-demo`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo
spec:

>   template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  template: #<1>
```

Author: Fixed.

    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollouts-demo
    spec:

>       containers: #<1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      containers:
```

Author: Fixed.

      - name: rollouts-demo
        image: argoproj/rollouts-demo:blue
        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 32Mi
            cpu: 5m
                
  revisionHistoryLimit: 2
  replicas: 5
  strategy:
    canary:
      canaryService: argo-rollouts-canary-service #<2>
      stableService: argo-rollouts-stable-service #<3>
      trafficRouting:
        plugins:
          argoproj-labs/openshift:          

>             routes: #<3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            routes:
```

Author: Fixed.

              - rollouts-demo-route  #<4>
      steps: #<5>
      - setWeight: 30
      - pause: {}
      - setWeight: 60
      - pause: {}
  selector: #<6>
    matchLabels:
      app: rollouts-demo
----

> <1> Specifies the name of the container used in the rollout.

Reviewer: I found this handy example YAML that adds more information: https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/specification/
So I would sugest moving callout <1> to the template:
```suggestion
<1> Specifies the pods that are to be created. 
```

<2> This must match the name of the created canary `Service`.
<3> This must match the name of the created stable `Service`.
<4> This must match the name of the created `Route` CR.
<5> Specify the steps for the rollout. This example gradually routes 30%, 60%, and 100% of traffic to the canary version.
<6> Ensure that the contents of the `selector` field are the same as in canary and stable service.
.. Click *Create*.

> .. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

Reviewer 3: @varshab1210 For Rollouts, the success state is named 'Available', [these are all the states](https://github.com/argoproj-labs/argo-rollouts-manager/blob/b3e573f0e6ea3a5ec3eeba70ebb5d90e58efcd68/api/v1alpha1/argorollouts_types.go#L81). 

(I think these state names came from the original code contributed by Abhishek and Jaideep)

> .. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

Reviewer 4: When I was testing this, **Phase: Healthy** was showing up in the UI for the Rollout instance so I thought that's the success state. Let me re-check that.

For RolloutManager on the other hand, it was in fact, **Phase: Available**

> .. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

Reviewer 4: $ oc get rollout rollouts-demo -n openshift-operators -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}'
Healthy

> .. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

Author: Hey @varshab1210 - Could you let me know if further changes are required for this comment?

> .. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

Reviewer 3: Ah, sorry @varshab1210, I misinterpreted your original request, but we're on the same page now :grin:. Thanks!

@Dhruv-Soni11 I think we can add a new line like so:
```
.. Click *Create*.
START OF NEW LINE
.. After the Rollout has been created, you can verify that the .status.phase is Healthy.
END OF NEW LINE
.. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.
```

> .. In the *RolloutManager* tab, under the *RolloutManagers* section, verify that the *Status* field of the *RolloutManager* instance shows as *Phase: Available*.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
----
<1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.
+
This increases the traffic weight to 60% in the canary version and 40% in the stable version. 
+
.Example route with 60% of traffic directed to the canary version and 40% directed to the stable version.
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 60
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 40
----
. Increase the traffic weight in the canary version to 100% and discard the traffic in the old stable version of the application by running the following command:
+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
----
<1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.
+
.Example route with 0% of traffic directed to the canary version and 100% directed to the stable version.
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service

>     weight: 0

Reviewer 4: In this case, I am not able to view the service `argo-rollouts-canary-service` at all in the route once `argo-rollouts-stable-service` turns 100%

Author: Hi @ varshab1210 - What is the reason behind this issue? Is it because of an incorrect setup or running a wrong command? In @jgwest's walkthrough, we successfully tested the entire scenario.

Reviewer 4: I am not sure about that, @jgwest would know better.

Reviewer 3: I am seeing the same behaviour as @varshab1210: I only see the stable service defined in Route at this step.

The logic is still correct: it's fine to remove alternateBackend when it has `weight: 0`. And I've verified that the canary weight is added back correctly when running the promotion steps.

HOWEVER, it's strange, as I don't recall us actually having logic to do that, so I will double check to determine who is making this change, and we can update the doc.

Reviewer 3: OK, I stand corrected, [we do have logic that removes alternateBackend when weight: 0](https://github.com/argoproj-labs/rollouts-plugin-trafficrouter-openshift/blob/8b4125a7f9ecffb0247df91a4c890f88c0c523b7/pkg/plugin/plugin.go#L138). 

@Dhruv-Soni11 you can remove this section of the YAML from the example; I can confirm this section does not appear in the Route when canary has weight=0.
```
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 0
```

Reviewer 4: Thanks for checking that @jgwest!

Author: Fixed, I have removed this part of the YAML code. Thanks for clarifying this @varshab1210 @jgwest.

* You have installed the {gitops-title} CLI on your system. For more information, see _Installing the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.
* You have installed the Argo Rollouts CLI on your system. For more information, see _Configuring the {gitops-shortname} CLI_.

.Procedure 

. Create a `Route` object.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Networking* -> *Routes*.
.. Click *Create Route*.
.. On the *Create Route* page, click *YAML view* and add the following snippet:
+
The following example creates a route called `rollouts-demo-route`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: rollouts-demo-route
spec:
  port:
    targetPort: http #<1>
  tls: #<2>
    insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy: Redirect
    termination: edge
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: <argo_rollouts_stable_service > #<3>
    weight: 100 # <4>

  alternateBackends:
    - kind: Service
      name: <argo_rollouts_canary_service> #<5>
      weight: 0 #<6>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the port used by the application for running inside the container.
<2> Specifies the TLS configuration used to secure the route
<3> Specify the name of the targeted stable service.

> <4>  This field is automatically modified to stable weight by Route Rollout plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> This field is automatically modified to stable weight by Route Rollout plugin.
```

Author: Fixed.

+
As a result, the container image deployed in the rollout is modified and the rollout initiates a new canary deployment.
+
[NOTE]
====
As per the `setWeight` property defined in the `.spec.strategy.canary.steps` field of the `Rollout` resource, initially 30% of traffic to the route reaches the canary version and 70% of traffic is directed towards the stable version. The rollout is paused after 30% of traffic is directed to the canary version.
====
+
.Example route with 30% of traffic directed to the canary version and 70% directed to the stable version.
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  alternateBackends:
  - kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-canary-service
    weight: 30
  # (...)
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: argo-rollouts-stable-service
    weight: 70
----

. Simulate another new canary version of the application by running the following command in the Argo Rollouts CLI:
+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc argo rollouts promote rollouts-demo -n <namespace> <1>
----
<1> Specify namespace where the `Rollout` resource is defined.
+
This increases the traffic weight to 60% in the canary version and 40% in the stable version. 

> .+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

Author: Fixed.
